Now new pictures from a school
Sheltering displaced Palestinians in
Northern Gaza show bodies piled up
following an Israeli attack Witnesses
say a number of people including women
children even babies were killed
execution Style by Israeli forces while
they were Sheltering inside the
school the Israeli soldiers came in and
opened fired on them they took an old
man the Israeli soldiers stormed the
school took all the men then entered
classrooms and opened fire on a woman
and all the children with her even the
newborn babies among them she her
husband and her eight children together
with her cousin the Israeli soldiers
executed those innocent families at
Point
Blank the school buildings are totally
destroyed we found dozens of dead bodies
in the classrooms there is no sign of
any missiles or shells all those who
were in the buildings were executed from
from point blank the Israeli soldiers
opened fire on them many families came
searching for their children they found
them all killed they were all killed
executed at gunpoint well Chris gunis is
a former unrea spokesperson joins us now
live from London your reaction first of
all to these pictures which have
emerged well it's very clear that there
needs to be an investigation I run a
thing called the Myanmar accountability
project and we we are bringing criminal
cases against members of the Myanmar J
and what you begin with is an
investigation you get Witnesses you
compile the evidence and you make a
complaint now I think that there are
serious grounds for investigating by the
ICC there is an investigation open I
strongly recommend that Al jazer makes a
victim submission on behalf of these
victims and their families to the
international criminal court it's very
hard to draw any legal forensic
conclusions until there's been a proper
examination of the evidence but
certainly this would be appear to be
evidence of war crimes it's also
potential evidence of genocide because
under um article six of the Rome statute
which governs the ICC deliberate killing
is one of the crimes which Define
genocide so I would suggest that this is
sent to the international criminal court
for investigation but my other reaction
is this is the result of Israel being
given a free reign to violate
International humanitarian law as it
sees fit the signals that were sent by
our leaders in the UK by the Americans
and by other of Israel's allies were
incredibly weak it was very clear that
Isabel that Israel was given uh green
light to prosecute this war in any way
it could The Narrative of Israel has the
right to defend itself against Hamas
that was the predominating narrative and
that is what in part has res resulted in
what appears to be a serious War crime
and as I say it must be investigated the
fact that Hamas may have committed these
crimes and it's clear that absolutely
bestial things took place on the 7th of
October they need to be investigated as
well and those respons need to be held
to account and if that means the
international criminal court issuing an
arrest warrant for Israeli leaders and
for Hamas leaders obviously then so be
it there must be account accountability
for the victims of these what looked
like appalling crimes we've seen this is
not the first instance of civilians
dying in civilian infrastructure right
we've seen attacks all throughout this
conflict on schools on refugee camps is
there a bigger picture of really the
undermining of the legal sanctuaries of
of these places sanctity of these
places indeed the sanctity and the
neutrality of unra for example which has
given all of its GPS coordinates to the
Israelis refugees and displac people
assumed that underneath the blue un flag
there would be Safety and Security and
that has to be guaranteed by Israel the
occupying power that rule in the rule
book has been torn up and thrown away um
but there is also um a wider question um
and that is that under the Rome statute
again attacks on civilian infrastructure
are outlawed and there is an
international law the principle of
Distinction you have to distinguish
between combatant and non-combatant you
cannot just walk in to a civilian
installation and start shooting people
on the grounds that there might be a
Hamas operative there or it might be
possible to kill one of the enemy that
is not how international law works and
not to abide by international law that
is a crime it's a war crime crime if
it's shown to be true and there has to
be criminal accountability that's what
the victims want and that's what they
must have we've seen right from the
beginning of this conflict Israeli
officials M saying openly that they plan
to cut off food water electricity and
fuel when we look at the statements that
were taken this was even before the sort
of Carnage that we're seeing now we look
before a year ago to some of the
statements we were getting from Western
leaders such as Ursula V Deion saying
quote Russia's attacks against civilian
infrastructure especially electricity
are war crimes cutting off men women
children of water
electricity these are acts of pure
Terror we have to call it as such do you
feel do you feel disappointment towards
Western leaders and we don't hear that
same line towards humanitarian suffering
that we're witnessing now
well there's a clear double standard but
I don't feel disappointed because it's
been going on for so long Israel has
constantly been given a get out of jail
free card when it comes to Justice y AV
Galant who just quoted the Israeli
defense minister said early on in this
conflict there will be a total blockade
no fuel no food no water that shows
intentionality that shows that there was
an intention to commit a war crime and
guess what on the streets of Gaza in
Gaza itself we are seeing evidence of
those war crimes the same is true of Mr
Netanyahu he called for an amalec
genocide invoking the biblical
injunction to kill men women children
babies let nobody be alive after this
attack that's what the amalik injunction
AMC injunction says in the Bible Mr
Netanyahu actually accused himself he
indicted himself by saying that in
public the other I mean we have an
Israeli Minister saying that a nuclear
bomb should be dropped on Gaza I mean
that at least did confirm that Israel at
least it seemed to confirm that Israel
actually has a nuclear bomb but again
these are just examples of Israeli
leaders indicting themselves you know
the criminal the international criminal
court needs to prove intense well all
they need to do is Google some of this
stuff that said that said proudly and on
the record there are grounds in terms of
the crimes being committed and in terms
of the intentionality for arrest
warrants to be issued just as they were
against Putin all right thank you so
much for your thoughts on that Chris
GIS